
- First "official" release. Compatible with **Minecraft 1.20+**.
- **General changes**:
  - The resourcepack now modifies the texture and name of the knowledge book, so using custom rescipes is friendlier.
  - Technical changes optimizing functions, standarizing code, and implementing new 1.20 features.
  - Using the new `recipe_crafted` trigger to make vegan crafting 100% consistent and make custom recipes appear in the recipe book.
  - Added recipe categories to custom recipes, so they show up in their correct tab.
  - Added translation strings to advancement titles and descriptions (EN, GL, PT, ES).
  - Added translation fallbacks in the case the player is not using the resourcepack.
- New features in **Omnivorous Pets v1.1**:
  - **Stray cats now stop their movement when a nearby player is holding food in their hand**: 
    - The cat will look at the player for a few seconds expecting to receive food, and then will continue with their normal behaviour.
    - Attacking a cat will temporarily disable this feature.
    - **This option can be disabled** using the command `/function dnv.user:cat_waiting` (admin only, use the same command again to reenable it).
  - Reduced cats' eating range to 1 block.
- New features in **Acacia Gum v1.1**:
  - Added a new advancement for feeding a frog with acacia gum.
- New features in **Ethical Textiles v1.1**:
  - Added **Faux Feather**, an alternative to bird feathers crafted from 1 stick, 1 of any leaves, and 2 strings.
    - Added advancement for crafting a vegan faux feather.
  - Changed the 3 slime + 6 bamboo -> leather recipe into **3 slime + 3 bamboo blocks -> leather**.
- Added the newest datapack: **[Magnet Fishing v1.1](daenvil.github.io/MCDatapacks/magnet_fishing.html)**.
  - Added the **Magnet Rod** custom item and its crafting recipe.
  - Implemented custom fishing loot tables for the magnet rod.