
## General changes

- New features: vegan brewing, art and deco, sniffer seeds, and XP from crops.
- Reworked all custom recipes into the new system. Now custom recipes will show their correct output instead of a knowledge book, both in the crafting table output and in the recipe book.
- Removed the "Vegancraft toggle" that controlled whether certain datapack features were enabled or not. This was too much work for me to maintain, and I don't think it's worth to keep updating that feature. Now, those features are always enabled on the full Vegancraft datapack, but disabled if playing standalone datapacks without the full one.
- Removed advancements from the standalone datapacks. Now those are only available in the full Vegancraft datapack. They were also revised and a lot of the existing advancements were removed.
- Optimized functions to improve performance wherever I could.

## Plant-based Foods

- Added three new food items:
  - **Seitan Stew**: same as rabbit stew but crafted with a seitan steak.
  - **Veggie Burger**: crafted with bread, beetroot, and brown mushroom.
  -  **Not-salmon Fillet**: crafted with carrot, kelp, and vegan honey. It acts as raw salmon (so you can feed it to cats and dolphins) but gives the same hunger points and saturation as cooked salmon.

- **Not-fish fillet** now gives the same hunger points and saturation as cooked cod (but keeps acting the same as raw cod).
- The **seitan steak** recipe no longer requires a bucket of water. Now it's just wheat + mushroom/beetroot stew. Now it's also shapeless (can be crafted without a crafting table).
- (Vegancraft only) XP rewards for seitan and not-fishes have been nerfed to account for the new crop XP mechanics.


## Ethical Textiles

- Added a new item: **Armor Scale**, which has the same usage as the armadillo scute. Crafted with 2 strings, 1 slime ball, and 1 diamond (1 craft provides 2 scales).
- Added an alternative **brush** recipe that uses 4 strings instead of a feather.

## Omnivorous Pets

- I'm removing the _Omnivorous Pets_ datapack from Vegancraft. I'll still maintain it as I think it's a useful datapack, but I don't think it matches well with the rest of Vegancraft due to having to use a different mechanic to tame the pets (dropping items instead of right clicking them). I'll probably re-add it in the future if Mojang makes it possible to tame wolves with things other than bones.

- For now, the two different "not-fish" foods from Plant-based foods are enough to tame cats, and I also added a new recipe to **craft bones from 3 bonemeal**, allowing to tame wolves without having to kill skeletons for bones.

## Vegan Brewing

A ton of new items were added as alternatives for animal-based brewing ingredients. 

- **Blazing Powder**: an alternative to blaze powder. Crafted using a magma block and 4 glowstone dust.
- **Blazing Rod**: an alternative to blaze rods. Crafted using a lightning rod and 2 blazing powder.
- **Breezy Rod**: an alternative to breeze rods. Crafted using a blaze rod and dragon's breath.
- **Gunpowder** is now craftable from any coal + redstone + glowstone dust.
- **Poisonous Sprout**: an alternative to spider eyes. Crafted from poisonous potatoes.
- **Fermented Sprout**: an alternative to fermented spider eyes. Crafted in the same way but from poisonous sprouts.
- **Hardened Seagrass**: an alternative to turtle scutes. Crafted from seagrass and wax.
- **End's Mist**: an alternative to dragon's breath. Crafted from a bottle o' enchanting, blazing powder, and a chorus flower.
- **Bouncy Boot**: an alternative to rabbit's feet. Crafted from leather boots surrounded by slimeballs (or acacia gum).
- **Puffer Bubble**: an alternative to pufferfish. Crafted from a heart of the sea and soul sand.
- **Feathery Membrane**: an alternative to phantom membranes. Crafted from feathers and wax.

Sniffer plants now also drop some brewing ingredients, including a ghast tear alternative, see below for details.

Other animal brewing ingredients can already be obtained in a vegan way through other features:
- Magma cream and slime blocks by substituting slime balls with acacia gum.
- Synthetic cobwebs can be crafted using acacia gum and plant string.

## Vegan Arts & Deco

Added new recipes for all art/decoration-related stuff that depends on animals: dyes, inks, horns, mob heads...

### Copper Horns:

Including new item: the **copper horn** (same as the goat horn, just a different texture and way of obtaining).

- The horn with the "ponder" sound can be crafted using copper ingots and wax.
- All the other sounds are made in the smithing table, by combining an existing horn with a trim smithing template and a copper ingot. Each sound comes from different templates!
  - "ponder": from trim templates: "wayfinder", "raiser", "shaper", "host"
  - "sing": from trim templates: "coast", "dune"
  - "seek": from trim templates: "sentry", "vex"
  - "feel": from trim template: "wild"
  - "admire": from trim templates: "ward", "silence"
  - "call": from trim templates: "eye", "spire"
  - "yearn": from trim template: "snout"
  - "dream": from trim template: "rib"

### Inks and Dyes:

Some dyes are usually obtained from mobs, this adds alternative sources for them. Ink sacs are the only way of making signs glow/not glow, so alternative recipes for them were also added.

- **Black dye** is now craftable from any coal.
- **Ink sacs** are now craftable from black dye.
- A **book and pencil** (same as a "book and quill") is now craftable using a book, a stick, and any coal.
- **Black and white dyes** are now craftable from dark oak and birch logs/wood, respectively, by using the stonecutter (this simulates grinding their bark).
- **Glow ink sacs** are now craftable from glowstone dust, glow berries, or glow lichen.
- **Glow item frames** are now craftable by using glowstone dust, glow berries, or glow lichen instead of a glow ink sac.

### Mob heads:

Some heads, like creeper and wither skeleton heads are used for banner patterns and for fireworks, so alternatives for them were needed. Since now there are more mob heads which can be used on note block, I added all of them:

- Most heads are crafted from a carved pumpkin surrounded by dyes and items related to the mob:
  - **Creeper head**: carved pumpkin surrounded by green dyes and gunpowder (see the brewing section for vegan gunpowder).
  - **Skeleton skull**: carved pumpkin surrounded by white dyes and bone blocks.
  - **Zombie head**: carved pumpkin surrounded by fermented spider eyes (see the brewing section for alternatives to spider eyes).
- Then, the heads from the harder mobs are made using a template so you have to actually go to the mobs' locations and face some challenge:
  - **Piglin head**: carved pumpkin + pink dye + nether gold ore + either the "snout" trim smithing template or the piglin banner pattern.
  - **Wither skeleton skull**: skeleton skull + black dye + netherite ingot + "rib" trim smithing template

### Froglights:

Froglights are now craftable with a shroomlight block, prismarine crystals, and a dye related to the froglight color:

- Yellow dye: ochre froglight
- Magenta dye: pearlescent froglight
- Green dye: verdant froglight

A shroomlight is used due to it being an organic glowing block like the froglight and also being obtained in the nether. Prismarine crystals are used because of their relation to water and the more crystaline look of froglights.

### New banner patterns:

There are two new banner patterns available in the loom:

- The "sprout" pattern (🌱), which requires the flower charge pattern (craftable with flowers).
- The "circled V" pattern (ⓥ), which requires the globe pattern (obtained from cartographer villagers).

These do not replace any vanilla patterns, they are just extras.

## Sniffer Plants

- Torchflower and pitcher seeds are now obtainable in ocean ruins from brushing suspicious sand and gravel, respectively. These replace the wooden hoe in these blocks' loot tables so, whenever you would get a wooden hoe (2/15 chance), you get a sniffer seed instead.
 - Sniffer seeds are now also farmable: when breaking a fully grown torchflower or pitcher plant, they will drop 1–2 of their seeds instead of dropping themselves (increased with Fortune enchantment). You can still collect the plant itself by using shears or any tool with silk touch*. In addition:
   - Torchflowers have a small chance to drop **blazing powder** (see brewing section).
   - Pitcher plants have a small chance to drop "**pitcher fluid drops**" (a ghast tear alternative). 

*Important: due to how pitcher plants are made, you will need to break the **lower half of the plant** with shears or silk touch in order to obtain the plant itself. Breaking the upper half of the plant will result in the regular drops.

## XP from farming plants

A new feature that rewards players with experience for farming crops. Just as killing and breeding animals gives XP, this datapack makes it so harvesting plants also drops XP.

- Each plant has a certain chance to drop 1 XP. This chance is calculated based on how hard it is to reproduce and grow the plant and was balanced to be as equivalent as possible to farming animals.
  - Certain plants do not drop any XP, either because of how easy they are to produce & harvest or because of other balance concerns. These are: bamboo, flowers, dripleaves, seagrass, vines, melons, and pumpkins. Mushrooms also are also not included for this reason. As for trees, breaking their leaves manually is the only way to obtain XP from them.
- XP is only dropped when a player breaks the block. It's not dropped if the block is broken by explosions, pistons, etc.
  - In the case of sweet and glow berries, XP is also obtained by harvesting them with right click.
  - Only the block mentioned above drops XP, not any other block in the plant. For example, breaking a chorus plant does not drop XP, only directly breaking the flower does so.
  - Cactus and sugar cane do not currently drop any XP because of a bug in the game related to their block states. They will work correctly when Mojang fixes that bug.
  - (Vegancraft only) In the case of sniffer plants (torchflower and pitcher plant), they will not drop XP from harvesting the plant with silk touch or shears. They will only do so if broken with any other tool.
- XP is NOT dropped from player-placed blocks. Some plants, like kelp or chorus flowers, are planted by placing the block, but they will only drop XP after they have grown. In summary: **you can't farm XP by repeteadly placing and breaking the same block**, you will have to at least wait for the plant to grow.
- To prevent exploiting this mechanic by using fast semi-automatic farms or spamming bone meal, **if a player gains a lot of XP in a small period of time, the chances for XP to drop will decrease for that player** until enough time has passed. The chances start decreasing at 200 gained XP and will drop to zero at 600 XP; from there, it will take ~6 minutes for the chances to recover their regular values. This system would cap at 64 XP/minute in an ideal ultra-fast farm (probably lower in a real case), which is still lower than most mob farms.