
Additions:

- **Hot Air Balloons:** new datapack included within Vegancraft. It adds craftable hot air balloons, an alternative to happy ghast riding!
  - Craft one and right-click on the ground with it. A balloon will spawn, which can be ridden by right-clicking on it.
  - When not ridden, it will slowly wander around, so I recommend to attach it somewhere using a leash.
  - If destroyed, the original balloon item will drop.
  - For everything else, it behaves exactly the same as a happy ghast, so you can ride it with the same controls and even attach boats to it (which makes them look more like irl balloons).
- **All music discs are now obtainable in vegan ways.** These are the new methods of obtaining them (any disc not listed here was already obtainable somehow):
  - ***Blocks:*** from **village house** chests (10% chance)
  - ***Chirp:*** from **jungle temple** chests (33.3%)
  - ***Far:*** from **stronghold library** chests (100%)
  - ***Mall:*** from **shipwreck** map chests (20%)
  - ***Stal:*** from **village weaponsmith, toolsmith, armorer, or temple** chests (33.3%)
  - ***Strad:*** from brushing suspicious gravel in **trail ruins** (8.8%)
  - ***Ward:*** from **ancient city** chests (15%)
  - ***11:*** from **abandoned mineshaft** chests (20%)
  - ***Tears:*** from breaking **pitcher plants** (1%) *(the plant has to break and drop seeds. The disc can't drop if you harvest it with shears/silk touch)*
  - ***Lava Chicken:*** from **wandering traders** (12%) or from getting the ***Hail Seitan*** advancement (crafting 666 seitan steaks).

Changes:

- Slightly reduced chances of getting nether stars in ancient cities (2%)
- Ancient city loot now may contain ominous trial keys (4%)
- Journeyman cleric villagers now buy ominous bottles in exchange for emeralds
