---
title:  "An update: current status, Minecraft 1.20.5, and future releases"
published: true
permalink: update_MC1.20.5.html
tags: [news]
keywords: update, minecraft, 1.20.5, release, future
---

Hi all! This is a small update regarding the status of my datapacks.

First, I started a full-time job as software developer some months ago, which really takes time and energy away from me to be as active as I used to be on the development of my Minecraft projects. **I plan to keep updating my existing datapacks and adding new stuff whenever I can**, though, it will just take longer. I also deleted my ko-fi, since I don't really want to earn any money from this anymore.

Now, regarding future Minecraft updates, it's clear now that Mojang is changing how a lot of datapack stuff works, which means that maintaining a lot of datapacks up to date takes a lot more effort than it used to. For this reason, I plan on only updating my datapacks with each Minecraft release and stop updating for important snapshots or pre-releases, like I used to do. This also means that updating datapacks will probably take longer and I will not be able to update them quickly on the following days of a release anymore.

Specifically, **Minecraft 1.20.5** is introducing a lot of changes for datapacks. The most important for me being that **crafting custom items** is now officialy supported. A lot (if not most) of my datapacks make use of kind-of-complex techniques to achieve custom crafting, so updating them to the new system will take a bit of work, but it will be worth it. **Now you won't have to craft weird knowledge books that then transform into objects, you craft the custom items directly, and they even appear in the recipe book as such!** This will be great for my Vegancraft and Baked Goods datapacks which have tons of custom items, so hopefully I can adapt them to this system in the next update.

{% include image/basic.html src='misc/custom_crafting_snapshot.png alt='An example of the new custom crafting' align='center' width='300' nn=true %}
<p align=center style="color:gray;"><i>An example of the new custom crafting (and a sneakpeek of a new addition)</i></p>

Stay tuned!