---
title:  "Minecraft 1.21 and next steps"
published: true
permalink: update_MC1.21.html
tags: [news]
keywords: update, minecraft, 1.21, release, future
---

As you can see, I have been updating (almost) all my datapacks to 1.20.5/1.20.6, which was *a lot* of work. The release of **Minecraft 1.21 was announced to be on the 13th of June**, which is very soon. I need a small break from Minecraft datapacks, since I have been dedicating a big chunk of my free time to this for the past months, but I plan to update all of them to 1.21 when it releases. Thankfully, this new update doesn't introduce as many datapack-breaking changes as 1.20.5 did, so I think this will be much faster.

Some other updates:

- [I just published Vegancraft 1.1](vegancraft_v1.1.html), with *a lot* of new features, including vegan brewing and gaining XP from crops. This was a huge update. I still haven't published this datapack in PlanetMinecraft, but I think I will do it with the 1.21 update.
- **I didn't update some of my datapacks to 1.20.5**:
  - [Easy Bone Blocks](easy_bone_blocks.html): I will not maintain this pack anymore since I feel the new Crafter makes it unnecessary.
  - [Omnivorous Pets](omnivorous_pets.html): this was mainly due to lack of time. I still plan of maintaining it, but since I removed it from Vegancraft and I dedicated a lot of my time to that, I had no time to fully test this datapack. I'll update it when 1.21 releases.
- **Are there plans for new datapacks?** Yes. It's been a lot of time since I made any new datapack, mainly due to real-life things consuming my time, as well as other projects that I have been working on. However, I still have a couple of ideas that I would like to develop, and 1.21 is the perfect opportunity for that, so stay tuned!

Thanks for reading!