
First version released.

The Efficiency, Silk Touch, and Fortune enchantments have extra features when using hoes:

- **Efficiency** increases the **area of effect when harvesting crops, cutting gras, and tiling soil**. Only crops with age > 0 will be auto-harvested. Only blocks that have air, grass, or small flowers on top of them will be auto-tiled. ***Sneak while using the hoe to avoid triggering this effect.***
	- Level 1: affects 2 blocks. Targeted block + next block in the direction the player is facing.
	- Level 2: affects 5 blocks. A plus shape (+) centered on the targeted block.
	- Level 3: affects 9 blocks. a 3x3 square centered on the targeted block.
	- Level 4: affects 13 blocks. a 3x3 diagonal square centered on the targeted block.
	- Level 5: affects 25 blocks. a 5x5 square centered on the targeted block.
	- The hoe will suffer damage proportional to the number of affected blocks.
- **Silk Touch** automatically **reseeds crops when harvested**. This affects any crop with age greater than 2. ***Sneak while using the hoe to avoid triggering this effect.***
- **Fortune** gives a **chance of getting an extra drop from wheat and beetroot crops**. The extra chance is +15.5% per Fortune level. With Fortune III, you'll get an average of 1.465 wheat/beetroot per crop.
- Some considerations:
	- These effects **only work if the enchanted hoe is held on the main hand**. Holding the hoe in the off hand won't work.
	- The Efficiency effect is compatible with the other two. The extra blocks affected by the Efficiency effect will also be reseeded if the hoe has Silk Touch, and will give extra drops if it has Fortune.
	- The crops affected by Efficiency and Silk Touch effects are the four vanilla crops (wheat, potatoes, carrots, and beetroots) + nether wart. Other plants are not affected.
	- Pumpkin and melon stems are not affected by the Efficiency effect. You can safely harvest crops around planted pumpkins/melons without accidentally cutting those.
	- Wheat and beetroot are the only vanilla crops unaffected by Fortune. The extra-drop chances given here were calculated in a way that it's proportional to the chances that the other vanilla crops get from Fortune.
	- This datapack modifies the Efficiency and Silk Touch vanilla enchantment files. It will be incompatible with any datapack that also modifies those.
